
IX

1. Introduction

    basic mismatch between these requirements and existing networking stacks in commodity operating systems

    IX separates the control plane from the dataplanes.
    

2. Background and Motivation

    2.1 Challenges for Datacenter Applications
        
        Microsecond tail latency
        
        High packet rates
        
        Protection

        Resource efficiency

    2.2 The Hardware – OS Mismatch

        A typical server includes one or two processor sockets, each with eight or more multithreaded cores and multiple, high-speed channels to DRAM and PCIe devices. 
        For networking,10 GbE NICs and switches are widely deployed in datacenters,with 40 GbE and 100 GbE technologies right around the corner. 
        
        Unfortunately, commodity operating systems have  been designed under very different hardware assumptions. Kernel schedulers, networking APIs, and network stacks have been designed under the assumptions of multiple applications sharing a single processing core and packet inter-arrival times being many times higher than the latency of interrupts and system calls. 
    
    2.3 Alternative Approaches

        User-space networking stacks

        Alternatives to TCP

        Alternatives to POSIX API

        OS enhancements


3. IX Design Approach

    Separation and protection of control and data plane

    Run to completion with adaptive batching

    Native, zero-copy API with explicit flow control

    Flow consistent, synchronization-free processing


4. IX Implementation

    4.1 Overview

        Linux kernel in VMX root ring 0,(hypervisors). 
        
        dataplanes in VMX non-root ring 0, (guest kernels). 
        
        Applications in VMX non-root ring 3,(as usual).
        
        This approach provides dataplanes with direct access to hardware features, such as page tables and exceptions, and pass-through access to NICs. Moreover, it provides full, three-way protection between the control plane, dataplanes, and untrusted application code.

    4.2 The IX Dataplane

        memory management

        time wheel

        implementation


    4.3 Dataplane API and Operation

        the zero-copy API

        the run to completion procedure

    4.4 Multi-core Scalability

         system call implementations can only be synchronization-free if the API itself is commutative [12].

        Each elastic thread manages its own memory pools,hardware queues, event condition array, and batched system call array. 

        the use of flow-consistent hashing at the NICs ensures that each elastic thread operates on a disjoint set of TCP flows

    4.5 Security Model

        architect seperation


5. Evaluation    

    5.1 Experimental Methodology

        10GbE setup

        4* 10GbE setup

    5.2 Latency and Single-flow Bandwidth

    5.3 Throughput and Scalability

    5.4 Connection Scalability

    5.5 Memcached Performance


6. Discussion

    What makes IX fast

    Subtleties of adaptive batching

    Limitations of current prototype

    Future work


7. Related Work

    Hardware virtualization

    Library operating systems

    Asynchronous and zero-copy communication


8. Conclusion

